So, let's talk about TanStack Query.
This is the artist formerly known as React Query.
They call it now TanStack Query because now it works across several libraries, not just
React.
There's an Angular Query, there's View Query, there's a couple of them.
But I would say far and above the most popular one is TanStack Query.
So we're going to make a past orders page, and this page is going to pull in all of the
old orders so that we can kind of navigate through them.
What's interesting about this data is it's highly, highly, highly cacheable, right?
Your old orders aren't really changing from page load to page load.
You might be getting new ones, right?
But the old ones are going to keep staying there, and particularly if you click on the
details, right?
The details of an old order aren't changing minute to minute.
So very highly cacheable.
That's kind of the nice thing about TanStack Query is that it makes like caching API requests
just so, so simple.
Like imagine right now with everything I've shown you with use effect, how would you cache
a response?
You could, right?
I imagine most of you would make some sort of object, and that object would live from
maybe another external module, and you would set a key, and then you'd say like if I'm
requesting this, then don't request it, pull it from cache, but no one wants to write that
logic, right?
Then you have to write the expiry logic.
You have to write like hydration logic if you want to preload it.
There's a bunch of stuff like that, and you don't have to because TanStack Query kind
of does it for you.
It's almost to the point that I almost never have to use effect anymore.
I just use TanStack Query for almost all the things I was using use effect for.
So with React, whenever I start a brand new project, it's npm install, react, react-darm,
and TanStack Query almost all the time, right?
Everything else, I don't always need routing.
I don't always need all the other tools, but I almost always end up using TanStack Query
just because it's better and easier to use.
And use effect is just, as you can see, you can have some pretty strange bugs.
You just kind of sidestep that by using TanStack Query.
So I'm a fan, as you can tell.
So let us go make our past orders page.
It's going to be fun if you have a warped sense of fun like I do.
All right, I'm going to run my server again, npm run dev.
Now inside of routes, I'm going to make a new file.
We're going to call this past.lazy.jsx.
And it's going to create this really nice little stub for us.
Thank you, TanStack.
And that all looks good.
So before we get too far here, let's go ahead and install all of our things that we need.
So I'm just going to grab this directly out of the docs.
We're going to be using TanStack 559.13 today.
And this library doesn't really change too much between versions.
There's some experimental features that I'm sure that they'll end up adding later, but
we're not using any of the experimental features today.
Actually that's not true.
Towards the end, we will.
It'll be fun.
Just in another terminal here, I'm going to run npm install at tanstack slash react dash
query.
Here we're going to install npm install tanstack react query at 559.13.
Go ahead and run install there.
And then we're going to grab one out of here as well.
This is just a bunch of them.
It has some really nice dev tools and it has some nice linting rules that we're going to
bring in as well.
So npm install dash d, because these are dev dependencies, tanstack react query dev tools.
This is like the router dev tools.
I'll say that I use the query ones more than I use the router ones.
So these ones are actually more useful in my opinion.
And then we're going to install the plugin as well for it, for ESLint specifically.
And again 559.13 and 559.7 are the versions I'm using.
Awesome.
Let's go modify our ESLint config here.
Put that there and then...
So we're going to import at the top.
Import plugin query from at tanstack ESLint plugin query.
And under the JSX runtime one here, we're just going to say dot dot dot plugin query
dot configs flat slash recommended.
I think I've complained about this style of config like seven times in this workshop,
but hear me out one more time.
This is just nonsensical looking, right?
Some of them are spread, some of them are not.
It's hard to keep track of in my opinion.
Frankly I spent a lot of time getting it right before this course, right?
Anyway, that was my problem but not yours, but your future problem.
So maybe we can commiserate.
All right.
So that should work.
I mean it's always good to just give her an old npm run lint just to make sure that something
broke.
All right.
So let's make sure that I got this right.
Plugin query dot configs with an s.
Right there.
So I had config, it's configs.
Let's try that again.
There we go.
Okay.
Good.
My dev server running again.
All righty.
So let's go ahead and add our dev tools.
Might be fun.
Could be cute.
So we're going to root dot jsx and here at the top we're going to just under, I don't
know, wherever you want to under here import react query dev tools like that from at tan
stack react query dev tools.
Okay.
And then I just put it like here.
It doesn't really matter but we'll just put it like right there.
React query dev tools.
Like that.
Some of these dev tools things are just popping up now.
You'll end up like, because I think there's like a versell one and a next js one and I
think react toolkit might have one.
So you can have like seven sets of dev tools in your app.
It's going to end up being like those old school web 2.0 browsers that have 17 ads that
all pop up but it's going to be just dev tools everywhere.
Can't decide if that's utopian or dystopian.
I think the answer is both.
Okay.
So now we have dev tools in there.
I think if you just look at your app now, oh, yeah.
So it's mad that we still haven't put the actual react query library in yet.
It's like I'm looking for something to hook onto and I can't find it yet.
So that's expected.
So app.jsx we're going to have to import query client and query client provider from at tan
stacked react query here.
So those are the two things I'm importing here.
We have the create router here and then we have to create underneath that a const query
client equals new query client.
There's some configurations.
You can pass this.
I don't remember what they are necessarily off the top of my head.
You can pass it in.
You can pre-fill the cache, which is kind of cool.
Sorry, that's covering it.
So let's say you have a bunch of requests that you know that the user is likely to make.
In our example, let's say we could pre-fill this with the last 10 orders just knowing
that that's the most likely orders that people are going to look at.
You could pass that in and query cache.
And so you can pre-cache these things, which is kind of cool.
The reason why I really like that is now all of our API requests get to look normal.
We don't have to say, all right, check the cache first and then make the API request.
It's like, no, just make the call.
Tan stack query is just be like, if I have it, I'll give it to you already.
And if I don't have it, I'll go get it.
Mutation cache is much the same.
Mutations are like post requests where you're posting something to the API.
You can cache that.
That's a bit more weird.
And then the default options here, queries, mutations, hydrate, dehydrate.
There's a bunch of options around doing stuff like that.
Those were just the TypeScript types, if that was confusing to anyone.
You can just command click on things, and it'll take you to the TypeScript types.
I do that all the time just to, it's like, what does this do?
Why does it do it this way?
Sometimes the types can help.
OK, so we have that.
Now we have to put it, we have to give it to the app with the query client provider.
Client equals query client.
And we'll just do it like that.
There we go.
So now, if you look at our page, it's loading again.
And you can see we have this nice little palm tree down in the corner.
It's very tropical.
And you click on that.
We're not using it yet, so our dev tools are vacant.
But stuff will start showing up here, which is kind of cool.